---
layout: post
title:  "BESSIG Meeting Wed, August 17, 4PM"
date:   2011-08-01
author: Anne Wilson
---
**NOTE THE NEW LOCATION:**  This meeting will be held at the **Millenium Hotel** in the Boulder Creek Living Room.  This private room is adjacent to a bar where food and beverages can be purchased and brought into the meeting.  

Note that the Millenium is graciously providing us this room including wireless connectivity without charge.  Please attend this meeting and consider purchasing some comestible fare to support the Millenium and our continued use of this room and its amenities.

**Who:**

**Gary Strand**, _The NCAR Community Earth System Model and the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report_.  [Gary's slides: Gary Strand Aug 17 2011 BESSIG presentation]

**Siri Jodha Khalsa** will give a short summary of a workshop he led at this summer's INSPIRE conference titled "What is Interoperability and How do we Measure it?" followed by an open discussion of the topic. (INSPIRE is the panEuropean spatial data infrastructure initiative. Workshop presentations are available at: INSPIRE conference presentations.)

**Leonard Sitongia**, Challenges in Legacy Software and Scientific Methods, followed by **Steve Olding** from the NASA Earth Science Data Systems Technology Infusion Working Group (via Skype),  A Toolbox for Organization-wide Infusion of Data Systems Technologies.

**When:** Wednesday, August 17, 2011, 4:00 - 6:00

**Where:**  The Boulder Creek Living Room of [The Millenium Hotel](http://www.millenniumhotels.com/millenniumboulder/index.html).  Please see the web site for directions to the hotel.  The Boulder Creek Living Room is found by entering the lobby, passing through the doorway on the right, then left through another doorway into the room.

Food items available include: appetizers, salads, a burger, wraps, and entrees, ranging in cost from $6 to a $29 entree.  Most items are $10 or less.