---
layout: post
title:  "BESSIG Meeting Wed, Aug 21, 4 - 6 PM"
date:   2013-07-22
author: Anne Wilson
---
NSIDC's and ultimately Boulder's loss of Mark Parsons is RDA's gain.  But maybe that's better for the world as a whole.  Join us at the Boulder Outlook Hotel on August 21 to hear about the Alliance Mark has joined.

The Research Data Alliance: Creating the culture and technology for an international data infrastructure

Mark Parsons, Managing Director, Research Data Alliance/U.S.

All of society’s grand challenges -- be it addressing rapid climate change, curing cancer and other disease, providing food and water for more than seven billion people, understanding the origins of the universe or the mind -- all of them require diverse and sometimes very large data to to be shared and integrated across cultures, scales, and technologies. This requires a new form and new conception of infrastructure. The Research Data Alliance (RDA) is creating and implementing this new data infrastructure. It is building the connections that make data work across social and technical barriers. 

RDA launched in March 2013 as a international alliance of researchers, data scientists, and organizations to build these connections and infrastructure to accelerate data-driven innovation. RDA facilitates research data sharing, use, re-use, discoverability, and standards harmonization through the development and adoption of technologies, policy, practice, standards, and other deliverables. We do this through focussed Working Groups, exploratory Interest Groups, and a broad, committed membership of individuals and organizations dedicated  to improving data exchange. 

What data sharing problem are you trying to solve?  Find out how RDA can help.

**Schedule**

4:00 - 5:00 Presentation

5:00 - 6:00 Social

Please join us!