---
layout: post
title:  "BESSIG Meting Wed, Jan 22, 4:15 - 6 PM, Outlook"
date:   2014-01-17
author: Anne Wilson
---
We're still at the Outlook through April 2014.  We seek an alternative venue for May and beyond. Please see New Venue Desirements below and keep them in mind as you move around Boulder.  

**Deep Carbon Observatory - Data Science and Data Management Infrastructure Overview and Demonstration**

Patrick West, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

The Deep Carbon Observatory (DCO) brings together hundreds of organizations and individuals from all around the world, spanning a great many scientific domains with a focus on Carbon. The DCO Data Science team is anticipating the generation of terabytes of information in the form of documents, scientific datasets from level 0 to data products and visualizations, information about events, people, and organizations, and more. So how do we keep track of all of this information, manage the information, and disseminate the information?

In order to organize all of this information and provide the research community the tools necessary to collaborate and do their research, the DCO Data Science team is putting together a suite of tools that will integrate all of these components in a seamless, distributed, heterogeneous environment. This presentation and demonstration will provide an overview of the work that we, the DCO Data Science team, are doing to provide such an environment.

Due to Patrick's schedule, we'll plan on starting at 4:15 instead of 4:00.

Here are Patrick's slides:  http://tw.rpi.edu/web/doc/DCO-DS-Overview-Demonstration-BESSIG.
 
**Schedule (mostly)**

4:15 - 5:xx presentation

5:xx - 6:00 social

New Venue Desirements

Free, or cost based on attendance

Can purchase food and beverages

Easy to get to, easy to park, in Boulder

Separate room

Projection capability

Internet connectivity

hours 4 - 6:00 Tu or Wed, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th week of the month, flexible